# Incorporating AI in Healthcare
In this document, I will be discussing two articles that have two different viewpoints on the topic of AI in healthcare. My first article, published by IBM, focuses mainly on the benefits of AI in healthcare and the improvements that it could provide; however, it does not discuss adequately the drawbacks or potential harm that AI could bring to the healthcare field. My second article, published by the NIH, highlights the drawbacks of AI in the healthcare sector and also outlines potential solutions to these drawbacks.


## Article 1
IBM's [The benefits of AI in healthcare](https://www.ibm.com/blog/the-benefits-of-ai-in-healthcare/), article starts off by discussing AI's efficiency, describing how it can "sift through enormous volumes of health data... and analyze it much faster than humans." The article then goes on to talk about how AI can help make healthcare operations more efficient, specifically by improving the administrative workflow, provide virtual nursing assistants, and offering dosage error reduction, less invasive surgeries, and possibly fraud prevention. Furthermore, this article reports on the current technological advancements in healthcare and how AI can strengthen preventative care. For example, as health and fitness monitors are becoming more and more common, "AI solutions" could be used to help humans analyze these datasets and use this information to improve preventative care.

The article also talks in depth about increasing efficiency in diagnoses. Specifically, one study was mentioned that was conducted at the University of Hawaii, where a research team found that AI technology can improve the prediction of breast cancer risk by analyzing many more radiology images than a radiologist would ever be able to analyze. This point to me is very interesting, because it suggests that AI could also get rid of potential biases that can occur when humans are analyzing these images. 


## Article 2
In a different light, the NIH's article [Drawbacks of Artificial Intelligence and Their Potential Solutions in the Healthcare Sector](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9908503/) presents many different drawbacks that can occur as AI further enters the field of healthcare. This article touches upon various different concerns such as social, clinical, ethical, and data collection concerns. For some of these concerns, the authors of this article provide possible solutions that could be applied in order to incorporate AI into healthcare to maximize its benefits, while minimizing the amount of concerns that people have.

One concern that stood out to me when reading this article dealt with "Biased and Discriminatory Algorithms." As stated in the article, "Biased software and technological artifacts may result from poor design or from incorrect or unbalanced data being input into algorithms." The article goes on to say that AI replicates the racial, gender and age prejudice that already exist in our society. The article does not give a potential solution to this issue, which leads me to think that this is an issue that must first be resolved within our society before we start developing new technologies, to avoid replicating the same human prejudices that can harm our healthcare system. 

